>> Melkey: With the database layer done,
let's go back into the API.
Let's go user_handler.go.
And we're gonna mimic the same behavior
we had with the workout handler, but
now we're gonna have it with
the user handler, okay?
So first thing, let's go ahead and
create the package API.
Next, let's do a UserHandler.
It's gonna be our struct, this UserHandler
needs to have two fields in it.
One is going to be the UserStore, so
store.UserStore, which are interface and
the second thing is the logger,
which is going to be point to log.logger.
Right, underneath, let's go ahead and
create our constructor, so
func NewUserHandler.
This is gonna take the UserStore
of type store.UserStore, and
it's also gonna take a logger,
pointer to log.logger.
It's gonna return a pointer
to UserHandler like so.
In the function, we can just return
the address of UserHandler, like so,
user store is gonna be UserStore and
logger is gonna be logger, all right?
And something different I'm going
to introduce into this section is,
we're gonna have, again,
remember we had that validation
request from updating a workout.
We're gonna extract that over here,
so we can do something like type
registeruserrequest, this is
gonna be its own struck, like so.
It's gonna have its own field, so we're
have username, we can do some like string.
You can have them as pointers,
I'm not gonna use points for
here because this is for
specifically registering a user, so
these are fields we want to
assure our mandatory, right?
There's a bit of a difference between
creating something and updating something.
For the update,
that's what we had those pointer types
to check if they are nil or not.
Just again, because it's go the zero
values could be a bit of a gotcha, but
because this particular struck is
going to be used for creating a user,
we can kind of take them more at face
value and not have that validation.
Again, you don't it's just
added protection, if you want,
you can definitely add a pointer and
do those same checks here, but
since it's already implemented
in a previous file,
I'll leave that up to you to
use if you like it or not.
So here we have username string,
we can just continue on with the JSON.
So we can put username, like so,
we can have our email string can be,
oops, JSON email.
Okay, we're gonna have our password.
It's gonna be a string.
Again, this is the password that
we get from the caller, okay,
we do password, and
then we can have bio, which is string.
Let's read bio, like so, okay,
now for server side validation,
like I just finished talking,
we don't have those pointers, and
we don't really need the pointers.
However, we can still add some
sort of function to validate,
is the email properly formatted?
Is the password, less you can't put
a password one character, right?
So we can have those validations
on our file here, again,
you can have them in the front end for
client side validation.
I don't see a problem having them on the
back end for backside validation as well.
And I think it's just useful to
demonstrate how this could be done.
So we'll just do a method
on our UserHandler.
We can call this validateRegisterRequest,
okay?
And this is going to take a pointer
to that new register request.
Just struck that we've created and
it's going to return an error or
no errors, okay?
And here, it's pretty simple,
we can do ifrequest.username is like,
empty, for example, right?
We can say return errors dot, oops.
So we've seen this when we looked
at the error SQL, new errors,
we can say username is required.
>> Melkey: Okay, and
we can create this new errors using
the built in errors package and go,
so errors.new, and here you can go nuts
with all of the constraints that you want.
The username length, the username,
if it's too short, too long,
you can add them here,
I'll show one example, right?
If length, sorry,
if lengthrequest.username,
let's say this is greater than 50.
Well, this can be an error.
First, we return errors.new,
we can say, username cannot be
greater than 50 characters,
something like that, right?
So however you wanna handle
usernames is totally up to you.
We can do the same thing with email.
So ifrequest.email is empty,
since it's a mandatory
field in our database,
we can return errors.New.
I'm going to say email is required, okay?
And I think a more interesting one,
which may require me to push and
you guys to pull down in just a second,
is the regex component of an email.
So go has a standard library a Standard
Regex library, and it's pretty good.
It's a pretty good Regex library,
I'm not gonna try and
claim, I'm like a Regex master, I can't
read Regex, I don't believe people that
can read Regex, I don't believe them,
they're wizards.
But, essentially, it doesn't hurt us to
also have a validation for Regex, okay?
So here,
we can do something like email regex.
We can bring in the regex
standard library, so regexp.
I can use the must compile function here,
and this accepts a string.
I'm gonna particularly use backticks.
Now, I'm gonna copy and paste what
this is, I'm gonna push the code up.
So here, I'm gonna grab this.
>> Melkey: And this is the formatted for
an email in regex, according to Google.
So continuing on,
we can say if emailRegex, right,
if it's not matching these strings,
so this method,
right here,
match string into the request.email.
Okay, so if this is false,
meaning the email does not
match the regex email formula we have,
we can return errors.new,
and we can say something like
invalid email format, okay?
And so, again, we can imagine this like,
we can have password validation as well.
>> Melkey: I can quickly just show you
one, but I think it's fairly obvious
what what the thing is you can
do ifrequest.password is empty.
You can see return error.New
password is okay and
yes, I agree that this would probably and
should be done with the front end.
But what if your front end is written
by someone who doesn't know what
they're doing?
Or what if you wrote the front end like
a 3 AM when you're buzzing on Red Bull,
jewels, Zins,
everything the devil's on your shoulder.
Like, it's easy for things to slip right
up because it's said to be done on one
side of your application, doesn't
necessarily mean it's, a, done correctly,
or b, can have negative
consequences on your back end.
And further strengthening my point,
stuff slips on the front, big whoop.
Your form is gonna miss the value, okay?
Here, if we accept values and persist
it into a database, that's big trouble,
that could actually have some
some consequences, right?
Now, our database is, I won't say the word
infected, but it has improper data.
Yeah, so that's why I always,
personally like to add the extra
stuff of my own back end validation.
This is not gonna cover all the cases, but
what it does try to do is validation
that you see in on the front end.
You can easily copy it
on the back end as well.